# Module [Parsing](type_Parsing.html)


```
module Parsing: sig [..](Parsing.html) end
```


The run-time library for parsers generated by `ocamlyacc`.





---


```
val symbol_start : unit -> int
```


`symbol_start` and [`Parsing.symbol_end`](Parsing.html#VALsymbol_end) are to be called in the
 action part of a grammar rule only. They return the offset of the
 string that matches the left-hand side of the rule: `symbol_start()`
 returns the offset of the first character; `symbol_end()` returns the
 offset after the last character. The first character in a file is at
 offset 0.




```
val symbol_end : unit -> int
```


See [`Parsing.symbol_start`](Parsing.html#VALsymbol_start).




```
val rhs_start : int -> int
```


Same as [`Parsing.symbol_start`](Parsing.html#VALsymbol_start) and [`Parsing.symbol_end`](Parsing.html#VALsymbol_end), but
 return the offset of the string matching the `n`th item on the
 right-hand side of the rule, where `n` is the integer parameter
 to `rhs_start` and `rhs_end`. `n` is 1 for the leftmost item.




```
val rhs_end : int -> int
```


See [`Parsing.rhs_start`](Parsing.html#VALrhs_start).




```
val symbol_start_pos : unit -> [Lexing.position](Lexing.html#TYPEposition)
```


Same as `symbol_start`, but return a `position` instead of an offset.




```
val symbol_end_pos : unit -> [Lexing.position](Lexing.html#TYPEposition)
```


Same as `symbol_end`, but return a `position` instead of an offset.




```
val rhs_start_pos : int -> [Lexing.position](Lexing.html#TYPEposition)
```


Same as `rhs_start`, but return a `position` instead of an offset.




```
val rhs_end_pos : int -> [Lexing.position](Lexing.html#TYPEposition)
```


Same as `rhs_end`, but return a `position` instead of an offset.




```
val clear_parser : unit -> unit
```


Empty the parser stack. Call it just after a parsing function
 has returned, to remove all pointers from the parser stack
 to structures that were built by semantic actions during parsing.
 This is optional, but lowers the memory requirements of the
 programs.




```
exception Parse_error
```


Raised when a parser encounters a syntax error.
 Can also be raised from the action part of a grammar rule,
 to initiate error recovery.




```
val set_trace : bool -> bool
```


Control debugging support for `ocamlyacc`-generated parsers.
 After `Parsing.set_trace true`, the pushdown automaton that
 executes the parsers prints a trace of its actions (reading a token,
 shifting a state, reducing by a rule) on standard output.
 `Parsing.set_trace false` turns this debugging trace off.
 The boolean returned is the previous state of the trace flag.



* **Since** 3.11


